Expound on when to use 'data' and 'stringData' fields in 'kubernetes.io/tls' type secrets (#41786)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/configuration/secret.md

One common use for TLS secrets is to configure encryption in transit for
an [Ingress](/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/), but you can also use it
with other resources or directly in your workload.
When using this type of Secret, the `tls.key` and the `tls.crt` key must be base64

> encoded and provided in the `data` (or `stringData`) field of the Secret configuration,

Reviewer: If you set `stringData` I think you don't need the extra base64 encoding. Does that sound right?

Author: That's supposed to be the case, but when I use `stringData`, it still somehow changes back to `data` on the cluster.
I am using k8s version 1.26.4 and not sure if it's an issue on my end. Are you able to reproduce this?

Reviewer: That's how all Secrets work: you can write either `data` or `stringData`, but the canonical form that the Kubernetes API returns is to have the data base64 encoded in the `data` field.

Right now, https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/ doesn't explain this well.

Author: Oh, thanks.
However, the challenge now is that the values for both `tls.crt` and `tls.key` for either `data` or `stringData` remain the same. And the workload(nginx daemonset in my case) keeps trying to decode the value and giving me the error 
```
failed to find any PEM data in certificate input
```
Which isn't the case when I provide base64 encoded values.

Reviewer: If you provide a `stringData` input that represents the PEM-encoded certificate and private key, things should work. Reading back the Secret reveals the that `data` is set to include the PEM-encoded certificate and private key, both base64 encoded.

If you provide a `data` input that represents the PEM-encoded certificate and private key (base64 encoded), things should work. Reading back the Secret reveals the that `data` is set to include the PEM-encoded certificate and private key, both base64 encoded.

I hope that makes things slightly more clear to you, and helps you write an explanation that helps all readers.
---

PS To make things harder to follow, PEM encoding uses base64 as part of its implementation. However I would largely ignore that detail and treat the PEM data as opaque.

Author: Thanks. It does.
Let me add a corresponding explanation in the PR

Author: Thanks. It does.
Let me add a corresponding explanation in the PR

metadata:
  name: secret-tls
type: kubernetes.io/tls

> stringData:

Reviewer 2: since stringData doesn't work that well with server side apply, I would avoid giving examples with it and would steer people toward using data

Reviewer: Eesh. Is there a tracking issue for _`stringData` doesn't work that well with server side apply_, or for documenting that gap? (ideally: both)

Reviewer 2: I see https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/118519, https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/96841, https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/89938#issuecomment-1033085353, but it deserves a callout in docs (both from server-side apply docs and from secret stringData docs)

Reviewer: I filed https://github.com/kubernetes/website/issues/42603

> data:

Reviewer: This could be `stringData`

Author: Please confirm if I should still proceed with this change.

Reviewer: Please do work on the pull request here. If you change to `stringData`, then AIUI the values need to _not_ change.

Author: I've just read the note in the screenshot below and gotten a bit confused. I've reverted the commit adding the headers in the example.

![image](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/assets/41787587/8cb99011-44cf-4082-8e71-ac71d2a52ed3)

  --key=path/to/key/file
```

> The public/private key pair must exist before hand. The public key certificate for `--cert` must be .PEM encoded
> and must match the given private key for `--key`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The public/private key pair must exist beforehand. Both the private key file and the certificate file
must be PEM encoded (see [RFC 7468](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7468)). Although the
Kubernetes API does not check, the private key also needs to match the certificate in order for this
kind of certificate to be useful.
```
